#### Data 
- can be defined as a representation of facts, concepts or instructions in a formalized manner, which would be suitable for *communication, interpretation, or processing by human or electronic machine.*
- Driven by User
- created by *Individuals* and *Businesses*
##### Categories of Data
- **Structured** - data that are managed and organized
	- *Databases*
	- *Spreadsheets*
- **Unstructured** - data that are not organized
	- *Forms*
	- *Images*
	- *Audio*
	- *Videos/Movies*

*80% of information are unstructured*
##### Transformation of Data into Information
1. *Summarizing the data*
2. *Averaging the data* 
3. *Selecting part of the data* 
4. *Graphing the data* 
5. *Adding context*
6. *Adding value*

#### Information
- is a set of data which is processed in a meaningful way according to the given requirement

##### Where does Data & Information come from?
Companies can get data from the following:
- **Legacy Systems** - used for data that has been *piling up for a long time*. (learning management, employee records)
- **Data Creation** - Transactions, manufacturing, making payments, purchasing, and employee reviews. 
- **Data Collection** - Data that *comes from external sources*. (weather trends, news reports)
##### Today's Information Corpus
- *Files*
- *Databases*
- *E-mail*
- *Instant Messaging*
- *Electronic Publishing*

#### Management
- the organization of and control over the structure, processing, and delivery of information.
- According to *Theo Heimann*, management has three different meanings;
	- **Noun** - *group of managers*
	- **Process** - *functions of Management* (Planning, Organizing, Directing, Controlling)
	- **Discipline** - *subject of Management*
##### 6 M's of Management
- *Manpower*
- *Money*
- *Machines*
- *Materials*
- *Methods*
- *Markets*

#### Information Management 
- is the *collection and management of information from one or more sources* and the distribution of that information to one or more audiences.
- is the *management of organizational processes and systems* that acquire, create, organize, distribute, and use information
- it is a continuous cycle of:
	- *identification of information needs*
	- *acquisition and creation of information*
	- *analysis and interpretation of information*
	- *organization and storage of information*
	- *information access and dissemination*
	- *information use*

##### Why is IM important?
1. Managing your information *saves you money*
2. Managing your information *makes you money*
3. Managing your information *keeps you out of trouble*

##### Key Components of IM
- **People** - those *involved in IM*, and also *creators* and *users* of data and information.
- **Culture** - Information culture that is *conducive* to information management
- **Policies and Processes** - *rules* that determine who has access to what, how to store/secure information, timeframes for archiving/deleting.
- **Technology** - *physical items* that store data and information.
- **Content (Data and Information)** - what *the rest* of the components use.

##### Goals of Information Management 
- Supply work, business and consumption processes with information
- Improve and speed up business work and consumption process through information use and efficient information processing
- Create and maintain competitive advantage through new, IT based work and business processes
- Efficient use of organizations information assets
- Reduce unnecessary complexity of information processing systems; protect against information overload.

##### Information Management Challenges
- **Exploding digital universe**
	- the rate of growth is increasing exponentially due to duplication of data and repurposing has contributed to the increase of information growth.
- **Increasing dependency on information** 
	- Strategic use of information plays important role in determining the success of a business.
- **Changing value of information**
	- Information that are valuable today would become less important tomorrow. Value often changes over time.

##### 5 Stages of Data Life-cycle Management
- **Data Creation** - *first phase* of the data life-cycle, can be in many forms. Is typically created by an organization in 1 of 3 ways:
	- *Data Acquisition* - acquiring *already existing* data produces outside the organization
	- *Data Entry* - *manual entry* of new data
	- *Data Capture* - *generated by devices* used in various processes
- **Storage** - protection, security, backup, recovery.
- **Usage** - can be viewed, processed, modified, saved.
- **Archival** - is the *copying of data to an environment* where it is stored in case it is needed again.
- **Destruction** - is the *removal of every copy* of data you no longer need.
##### Stages in Information Management 
- Information *Planning*
- Information *Capture*
- Information *Storage*
- Information *Reporting*
- Information *Archiving*